[00:00:00]Hakim: Okay. Thank you so much.  My name is Hakim Monykuer Awuok, South Sudanese and I’m a Programs Consultant for Empower Kids South Sudan. As I said, empower kids South Sudan is a nonprofit organization that an American businessman called Ed Eisele, who is based in the U.S. founded organization, co-founded by me in 2014, when I went for my fellowship in the U.S. I was interning with the [Lost Boy Center for Leadership Development?], through Atlas core programs that train nonprofit leaders in the world. So what we do as Empower Kids South Sudan, we support the students, youth on education. So we sponsor them to bridge run the program,-[00:01:00]-where they get these scholarships, fellowship, I mean, they go and train for a University graduate program, and then they get a scholarship, go to the U.S. and study U.S. education, then they come back to South Sudan to serve the communities. So, most of the kids have already to come back already, working. Some of them, one of them is working with the Vice President right now. Others working with ministries in East Africa, and several other institutions, others have also founded their own organizations, working with their own organizations.And then in 2018, that was the first time I heard from the founder of the organization, Mr. Ed Eisele, about the Solar Spell, because Ed Eisele a is good- He has a good relationship with Arizona State University. So he introduced that there is this program, which I think would be good for people of South Sudan, so it would be good if we can look at that and see how we can partner with Arizona State University. [00:02:00]So that is when the partnership began in 2018. So, some of the teachers were selected from Rumbek, Yambio, and Juba, and then they were sent to- I went with them together to Rwanda and we had training. That's where I met Dr. Rose and Mr. Bruce, for the first time. I mean, not Dr. Rose, Dr. Osman, and Bruce for the first time. So, we had the training, and then we came back to do the piloting of the Solar Spell education. And then we did the piloting in the school in Rumbek, Yambio and Juba, and it was very successful. So when we saw the success, I went to the Ministry of Education, to explain to them how this works, and how important this library-[00:03:00]-is to the people of South Sudan. Now that we don't have textbooks available, by that time textbook were not printed. So we don't have textbooks in schools. So this is the right program, right initiative for the people of South Sudan right now, so that we can have textbooks in the schools, though we don't have them in quantity, but this is the beginning of the good things that we should we should all expect. The Ministry of Education was very excited about it. When I it demonstrate to them, they were very happy, and they said, “Okay, this is good.” I said, “Okay, if you like it, then for it to work, you need to do something about it.” Then they said, “What should we do?” I said, okay, “You need to give us permission to use your textbooks, the textbooks for the Ministry, for the government of South Sudan, the soft copies.” So initially, they gave us two versions, there was version one which was the old textbooks, and then the new textbooks. So we received all the two versions of the textbooks. [00:04:00]And then we sent them to ASU, in the US, and then they were curated into the library, as part of the East Africa library. So this, they were sent back to us and then it was like, we were very lucky enough that we met. When Bruce came to South Sudan again, we had a shot with someone from the embassy, who agreed to give us some funding, small funding to do the implementation roll out of the Solar Spell.So we identified four schools in Juba where we sent the Solar Spell lab which was including the Solar Spell library. It does have also the batteries, two additional batteries, six tablets,-[00:05:00]-And then one additional Solar Spell panel. So we issued one of the Solar Spell lab, which was in the box, to all this four schools to begin with as we roll out to empower kids out there and also roll out to some other schools as well. So, the support from the American embassy and our own way- Our own direct support, as Empower Kids South Sudan to the schools in South Sudan. So our schools are- We're very excited when we train them and when we will follow up with them, they were very excited about the program, and they are working now in the schools in South Sudan. So it was very exciting and is still exciting. In 2019, when Dr. Rose came together with Dr. Osman and Mr. Bruce, we started conversation about Solar Spell Health,- [00:06:00]-which will be the second part and we met several health authorities in Juba to explain to them what we anticipated that will come in. This is a Solar Spell to catch it, and Solar Spell Health is also on his way to come. Then we went to Juba School of Nursing, where we showed the library I mean, the- What do you call it? The Solar Spell Wikipedia, health. The health Wikipedia was shown to them, they were very excited, and many students came up and they were looking in and wanted to access and download books, I mean information from the library. So we said, this is the beginning, we're going to work on it. And then we ask the administration within the school, if they can provide us with the list of the textbooks that we will put into the library. [00:07:00]And they indeed gave us the list, which I sent to the U.S, to Arizona, ASU Solar Spell team, and I hope some of them have already been included into textbooks, which I'm seeing some of the important information in the library. So yeah, that was the beginning of Solar Spell Health, and it was I was very excited about it. When I heard that there was a progress in the US, and then the training for Solar Spell Health was taking place, I then said okay, this is a time for me now to bring the same thing that we started in South Sudan, to come and get the knowledge and bring it back home to South Sudan. So that was the purpose why I came here. The reason why I came to Malawi is to attend the training, get the information, the knowledge about the Solar Spell Health, take it back to Juba, and train the teachers. [00:08:00]It was used to be called Juba School of Nursing, now it’s the St. Mary School of Health Science. So take it back to St. Mary, train the teachers on how to use it, they start using the library that they started it. So they contributed they gave them information to be added to the library, and they were very anticipating. They were anticipating to see the same when it comes back. So I'm going to go back to South Sudan and train the students and teachers on how to use/access the information in the library like I have already learned, though I did a lot of training with the Solar Spell education. Yeah, so I'll do that. And as I also mentioned, it is not only in the Juba- St. Mary only to have access to the training for Solar Spell Health. I look at the bigger picture that Solar Spell Health-[00:09:00]-is also a life changing program for people in South Sudan. I happen to be one of the maybe, the associate to those who are in the counties and health centers. And they lacked a lot of information. They lack textbooks, not even in the county alone, even within the city center in Juba, they don't have textbooks. They don't have information, enough information, not only enough information but updated information. They may be having a textbook that was produced 5-10 years ago, which is different situation right now because everything keeps changing and information is always updated. So this is updated information that they should have access to and be able to use it so that they succeed and save a lot of lives in in the country. [00:10:00]So I'm going to have one demonstration unit that I'm going to use for demonstrating the Solar Spell Health, where either I'm going to meet the health authorities in the country, especially the Minister of Health, and the [00:10:19][inaudible] of health, and demonstrate to them how this works. And then also give them suggestion that, “See, we have 79 counties in the country, and 79 health centers, why can't we have such an amazing innovation in this in these cities, I mean, in this county, so that they’ll be able to have access.” The health practitioners will be able to have access to this information, and use it to save lives in our communities. So yeah, I'm going to talk to him about it, I mean, to her about it, she's a she and we hope that-[00:11:00]-she will take it forward and be excited about it like the other ministers of education were very excited, the minister of education, the national government, and then the state, were all excited about the Solar Spell education. So I think they will also be excited about it, because this is the right material, the right innovation at the right time, where there is no access to infrastructures like internet, no electricity. So nobody has to worry about all that, because this does not need all these things that I've just said. It just requires you to have a device, connect to it, expose it to the sun to get charged and then you can use it as you want.And you have access to the information over unlimited times. So this is what I intend to do when I go back to South Sudan. [00:12:00]And I do believe that there will be a positive move, and this Solar Spell Health will be sent to remote areas in the country. I will try to work together with the Ministry of Health and see if other partners will be able to support the initiative and have this Solar Spell reach to people who daily need it right now at this time. Generally, coming to Malawi, is a good thing, I think for me and the people of South Sudan. And so I'm so excited that I came and work together with the people that have interest to save humanity, you guys, and the entire team of ASU, Solar Spell team. So I'm excited.Alison: We’re excited. [00:13:00]You have a lot of experience working with youth. Hakim: Yeah.Alison: Why is working with youth important?Hakim: Oh, that's very good. That's a good question. One thing is, when I, during the war, we went- Most of us, the stories may not be mine alone, it’s story for everybody, those of you that were part of all this struggle. I lost my mom and dad when I was 11. 11 years old when I lost them, and all the time I had my own struggles alone and with my elder brother, and then try to maybe build myself from that.  And you know how strange it is and how difficult it is for you to start building yourself when you don't have your parent to guide you. So you guide yourself with your own principles, and then what do you have learned from what they were telling you before they depart. [00:14:00]So, it was not an easy thing to build myself to grow up. So I realized that you know, this is the right thing that I should do the same thing by like building the capacity of those who are of disadvantaged the same way I had. So, why would I not support somebody who still does not know what the future holds for them, so let me give them the support that they need in my capacity, so that when they reach to a certain level and they have education, now they will know what to do, what is right and what is wrong. I didn't have that. Yeah.So it is important that I should support people like this so that they know what to do and that would be a good thing to the country. When we educate youth, we are building a capacity of people that will stay in a country and save a lot of lives and Take our country to the next level. So I felt it was it was good to build the capacity of youth in our country, support them, so they will-[00:15:00]-be the future leaders tomorrow. And above all, the reason is, though I didn't do education anyway, but I am passionate about education. Education, in our times, we used education as our mother and father. We didn't have mothers, we didn't have fathers. But we do believe that when you are educating yourself, educating yourself is your mother because tomorrow when you are educated, you will be able to reach places, you'll be able to do a lot of things that will change lives of the people which I'm trying my best to do right now. And, had I not gone to school, I would have not met you. That is why we say education is your mother and father. It has oriented me to be who I am today. [00:16:00]Education has given me the courage to change lives, to improve maybe the livelihood of the people that I have supported directly or indirectly. So that was the reason why I choose to support youth. And I will always continue to support youth in whatever I do, because youth are the future. They are always the future of the country. They're always the future of humanity and always future of human being. So when you support somebody who is going to be tomorrow, you have to give him the right knowledge, the right skills right now, so that tomorrow they don't make mistakes. If we don't build quality people, we’ll not have quality teachers. There'll be no quality education. When there's no quality education, there'll be poor doctors. If we have poor doctors, when they operate somebody, they won’t operate somebody easily or in a in the right way that is supposed to be, they may be killing some people. [00:17:00]So, these are the contributing factors to my own being and how I came up and how I see what the future should look like. Even from the beginning, when I met Mr. Ed, and he was asking me, what would you want us to do in South Sudan for now? That’s it. Now, for me, I was working in the ministry of education by then, so I told him the only thing we can do is to invest in education, because education is the key and this is where we develop people. He said okay. Then we started with training teachers, where we sent 15 teachers to Arizona State University for training in 2015, which was for one academic semester. So the interest for education to build this youth was a very great passion for me, and is still a passion, though I did public policy, right now is my Master's in Public Administration and demonstration,-[00:18:00]-because I realized also that for you also to build people, you have to have a good documents reviewed, you have to have a good leader to lead, so that you have a smooth process of building the capacity of people that that you want to build. So I hope one day I'll be part of the leadership to support this country, and see the best way on how we can make our country, a wealthy educated, and with health professionals who are- Where other people will come from somewhere to come to South Sudan for operations or something, because they have quality doctors. And then produce quality youth that will take our country forward. So that was one of the reasons why, yeah.[00:19:00]Alison: Thank you. So, just because- For sake of time, we have a couple of questions just to kind of start wrapping it up. So we've discussed quite a few things, the you’re a champion in Solar Spell here in not just Malawi and South Sudan, but hopefully for more of the African continent,  we discussed, the importance of supporting our youth and investing in our youth and education, all the long term impacts that come from that. But I'm curious if there's anything else that you feel like you would want to share that we haven't talked about yet?Hakim: Unless you have anything in mind. That’s okay.Ben: One question here, Hakim, what is your dream for South Sudan or for Africa in general, where do you think that we can and should hit as your country?Hakim: I think one dream is,- [00:20:00]-let me let me talk a dream about the Solar Spell. Solar Spell like I said yesterday in the previous interview is that, Solar Spell, I think it's good for Africa. Because 75 to 80% of the population in Africa has a very low- Okay, there's no internet, no electricity, but they are in a low status where there is no [site?] infrastructure, about 75 to 80%. And mostly it the sunny, okay, and they don't have access, majority of this population don't have access, the 80% population don't have access to information like this. Okay, some of them may be also low in technology on how to use it. But the Solar Spell initiative-[00:21:00]-came in as a very simplified technology, that even if you take two to three days, to orientate somebody about it, it will be easy to do, it's not like taking somebody through the software or something. They will be able to use it openly and then access it. So Solar Spell, I anticipate that Solar Spell would reach to all these populations in across Africa., Solar Spell Health, Solar Spell education, because of the of the design, of how it is designed. It is designed to use our natural resource that we have and that is the sun. So that will power all the devices, all the things that we have within the Solar Spell. So we put it anywhere, and it will be used, you go to a very remote area which you might have not gone to, where there is no road, nothing. But the only thing we have in abundance is sun, okay? So you will put the Solar Spell down wherever you put it,-[00:22:00]-and you come with your device and put it in an establish health center  either under the tree or wherever it is, you can use it, you can have access to information to very far remote areas. And that's what I love about it. And that's what I see as- That’s what I envisioned that our vision as Africa as a whole having all these devices in these remote areas. So we will not be thinking about some- Like for example, one of the doctors who could be in the village very far will not have access to the hard copy of the ,what do you call it, where there is no doctor, right? Where under the tree there and he wanted or she want this information to be able to treat somebody. So if you take Solar Spell to those remote areas, the information, not only about where there is no doctor in this document, I mean, this information-[00:23:00]-there'll be more information about other health aspect, there is more textbooks that the students don't have access to, but teachers will have maybe copy node and give them to the students. So when you have all this in the African countries across Africa, I think we will be changing a lot of lives, we will be building/investing a lot of children, that will be a future of this countries. And many people may not be thinking about that but individuals can change the whole thing. If both of us put mine together and then look at the importance of this, and how important it is to the future of Africa. It will be a very significant change in the lives of the poor people across Africa. If we if we take that and that's what I'm anticipating. I'm anticipating having all the Solar Spell libraries across Africa in remote areas particularly, not in urban areas. [00:24:00]We started in urban in South Sudan. We are continuing to raise funds, as soon as we get funding, more funding to extend this to the remote areas that would really help the people of South Sudan. And that's what we're looking at, extending it to not only focusing on the urban areas, but taking it to the rural areas where it is needed most than in urban. So that's what I see as a future. The future see, and then what else do I see envisioned for Africa? I know it’s a general question of what I envision for Africa. But I envision Africa having democratic practice across all the governance system where everybody is given the opportunity to serve-[00:25:00]-and when you're given an opportunity to serve in a system where you come in, then you give your policies, whatever you want to do for your people. And then when time has come for you to leave, you don't need to stick into power. So, let other persons also try. Probably, there will be more significant changes than what you already tried. So a democratic process of changing power from somebody to others, in a smooth way, through elections is the best thing that Africa should adopt. Because we have all it takes to serve our people, we have all it takes to do the right thing for the people. So let us have that opportunity to serve our communities through slight change of transition in the authority. [00:26:00]So I think that's where Africa is heading to, it’s a long struggle to go but for the people of South Sudan it’s still a nightmare. But we believe that as peace is stabilized in our country, and then we have a stable system, where we have the opportunity to serve people, and be able to conduct elections in a normal way of democratic practices. I think that we have a future that we are seeing as bright as it is going to be. So, yeah, talking about the future of Africa it’s a wide thing. What I envisioned for the entire Africa is quite wide. It's not only about mouth leadership, but it's also about offering/providing services that are commonly needed in across Africa. Africa is always termed as the poorest continent in the world,-[00:27:00]-part one of the poorest continent in the world, simply because of so many factors. And I would attribute it to two basically; the leadership failure, which contributed to insecurity. Okay, when there is no leader, when there's leadership failure, of course, there will always be insecurity. So those are the two main things that’s taking Africa backward. And that's the reason- If there is insecurity, you will not be able to do farming, okay to elevate to maybe prevent poverty. Okay, you cannot. But if there is security, you will have the opportunity to farm, you will have if produced food, quantity for that use some of it, when there's access, you can sell it to get more other services that you need. [00:28:00]Yeah, so I don't think there’s something much that I can say about envisioning in Africa, because it's a big thing, but what I envision as myself. I envision myself serving the people of South Sudan, and offering them all what I can for the better and build the capacity of youth, young ones, and encouraged that the exchange of- Maybe the exchange of power or transition of power in a peaceful manner. Should I become a president one day in our country, I do believe that there will be the beginning of a better change. Why is not because I am, or see myself as the only better person. No, but I see myself as someone that is considerate, and considerate of the feelings of others. I'm considerate of, anything that goes around me. So I'll be able to- [00:29:00]When I see things not going right on in my time, my term now, I will be able to clearly give it away so that other people can do. If I'm doing right, then I will always do it the better. One time, some of our youth were very surprised. I was a youth leader. I was appointed the president of the Association of our community, of Youth in our Community, Called [flozes?] community. So, I had past term, I did well and then they re-elected me for the second time. So I continued for second time, and then after my second term was over, they wanted me to continue with the leadership because I was doing well and establishing youth and progressing. So I then told them no, I won't go ahead for another one. [00:30:00]There is somebody among you, who is like me. Who can also do the same as I did. What I did was to do my part, what I can. You have learned from what I did, those who are behind me would also do the same thing. Let us give them the encouragement. So I declined to lead them, because the Constitution says it clear that as a president of the youth, you must lead for two terms. When two terms are over, then you have to relinquish your power. So that's what I did. So I do see that at a bigger capacity in a country, I think I will look at the same thing. Yeah. So that's what I envision as a better country for us all, me leading it.Ben: So yeah, we have a few more questions and then we will [00:30:47][inaudible] [crosstalk]. One quick question, I’m wondering if you have any proverbs in South Sudan-[00:31:00]-that you think are relevant to Solar Spell education or health or anything related to this work that you’d like to share? If anything comes to mind.Hakim: No, kind of like I’ll skip that. I don’t know if I have any proverb in mind now.Ben: One question we like to ask everyone, we think always sums up the thoughts, if you could share one message with the world, what will your message be. Hakim: one message for the world, we are born to leave in this world, and for us to leave in the world, we must unite as one people and support each other- [00:32:00]-wherever we are. Not only do those who are less privilege need support from the privileged ones, even the privileged ones need support from the less privileged ones, so working together as humanity for the betterment of the lives of humanity in all the world, is the most important thing we should do. It’s the right thing for a person to do. So, both of us have to [inaudible] the world to work together. Let’s join hands, it doesn’t matter south or north, in this world, we are all together, we’re all humanity, we’re all the one race created by God, so we must have support for each other. Let’s give all we can to support ourselves and leave a better world, where there is no enmity. A world where there is no jealousy, a world where there is no wars. [00:33:00]Let’s make our world a peaceful world and then bring up those who are less privileged and support those who are privileged, so that where ever we go, we’ll feel happy. You know, when we came to Malawi, we felt at home because we see a smile all over the world. We see a smile all over the faces of the people. This is the world we want to see. Let’s support each other. When we have such initiatives as such, we must give it all the support we need. This is the best thing. If we need the support, I’m talking about the support, I call on the world to support this program so that it goes to the less privileged, to those who really need it and this is an initiative that needs to be supported, the Solar Spell initiative. Thank you. [00:34:00]Ben: Yes, Hakim, I’m also [00:34:05][inaudible] to hear about the challenges you face as a youth. It’s sad to hear that you lost your parents at a young age, but also you turned out to be an incredible person, so how were you able to overcome this challenges and your education as a kid.Hakim: My story is enormous. First of all, when we were coming, we left our village back in 1989, about ‘88-‘98, close to ’98. And then on our way, when our village was attacked, we moved from the village. First of all, my elder brother went ahead of us when they were mobilizing the- We called them “red army” by the time. When they were mobilizing youths to go to-[00:35:00]-Ethiopia, my elder mother came ahead of us, myself, my mom, and my mom was pregnant by then. My younger sister, the one that left me was away, we left her at my maternal uncles. The three of us, and my mom was pregnant, on the way, my mom delivered as we were coming to Ethiopia, as we were fled from our village. So, my mom delivered on the way and lucky enough, my dad tried his best to help her deliver, because there were no midwifes.  It’s a very, very long story, so from thereafter, we lost him closer to Ethiopia, and then a few months later, my mom also past on. I think she died of trauma because she kept on saying the name of my father all the time. When we were left alone, we- [00:36:00]Because it’s a refugee camp, so always, there is food that is provided by the UN and lots of it comes from the U.S, of course, written “the US AID” “US food” from the American people, so we are very grateful to the Americans for the support. [Crosstalk] from that time, we have been staying with our uncles and family, and then when we reached Ethiopia, for a short while, Ethiopia also had a problem, so we had to leave Ethiopia and we struggled on food as well. By that time, I was leave little, around 11 years old. We had to walk and went back to South Sudan boarder at Pochalla. We stayed at Pochalla for a while until Pochalla was also attacked.[00:37:00]So we had to move again and move within South Sudan. It took us long time and us supporting each other, because I look at my elder brother as my father, because he was the only elder person that could give us whatever he could at his age, and then we also listen to the elders and the people that are nearby, who would kind of advice you. So, most of our growth was by listening to elders. The elders will tell you, it doesn’t matter whether it’s your father or your mother, as long as it’s an elder who knows something about life, then, you have to listen to that and then use it for you to move on. I struggled to go to schools, were I will attend a school and then went there is also crisis, maybe a war, fighting or something, we will leave that school and then go and try another school somewhere.[00:38:00]So, it’s a struggle to keep on trying and trying and trying until I reached where I am today. If we had time, narrating this will take us a lot of- Some hours for us to do it but I see you’re going to leave shortly for Lilongwe. Struggling as a young one after loosing parents was not easy, but what drives me further is what my father once told me, “Leave life, leave a happy life, make life, but you must always be grateful and happy to others. So, whoever you see as an elder, it should be like you have seen me or you’ve seen your mom.” So whoever I have seen as an elder, and whatever they told me, I believed it’s my father speaking to me. [00:39:00]Whatever I do, I believe it’s the encouragement my father gave me that made me to be who I am. Losing both Parents was a terrible thing, but I did not see that was a negative thing to be weak in heart and don’t leave a good life, but I think it was an encouragement from God for me to stay Strong and do something better and be able also to maybe investing in young people. And this is like what I’m doing, so that they don’t feel like I have gone through, so they must have a better future. I didn’t have it. I didn’t have the opportunity to go to school. I struggled to go to school by myself and good enough was that most of the schools were free because there were offered by the UN. So, it has given me the opportunity to learn, to acquire some skills and get the knowledge. [00:40:00]But now, as we evolve and things go forward, schools are not free. So you have to [involve somebody?] to have this skills and the knowledge to apply for scholarships and be able to get the scholarship and study, and come back and improve thins, so that children will not go through the same life that I have gone through. They have to have a very smooth life and enjoy their lives to the fullest. So, growing up as a child, after losing both parents was not easy but I’m happy that I stood my grounds to build myself, and be somebody who I am today to be able sit down with you on the same table and talk to you. I did not anticipate that one day maybe I’ll be sitting with from the United States or different places together on the same table, speaking English and expressing what we’re passionate about like we’re doing today. [00:41:00]So I’m very grateful to myself and to others who have also gone through the same struggle that we went through. Yeah.Alison: Yeah, Hakim, you’re an incredibly strong person.Hakim: Thank you.Alison: And I could thank you enough for sharing your story with us. I’m really excited to be able to share your messages out with the world and I think a lot of people are going to resonate with what you have to say in some sort of capacity. Thank you so much.Hakim: You’re welcome.Alison: I wish we had so much more time to kind of keep going, but-Hakim: That’s what I wanted to say too. I have not told you all the stories about how I struggled to be who I am today but we’ll still have a few shorts we’ll still have somewhere to discuss about it.Alison: And I want to just put out there that, if there is something that like kind of popped to you mind, you’d like to share with us, feel free to send us like a voice message on WhatsApp. It’s essentially the same thing. [00:42:00]Hakim: No problem.Alison: So, one last thing just to kind of, wrap it all up. Just looking for your concern to use this?Hakim: Sure, definitely. I give you my full agreement to use the information but I’d be happy if you’d share with me in advance before you let it go. So that I’d be able to look at it if it’s okay, otherwise I am excited. You can be able to use my photos, my videos for whatever purpose you’re doing it for, as long as the purpose is serving humanity. Yeah. Now, I’ll try my best to have enough time to myself, record my voice on my story- I’m looking at when I retire, try to write a book about myself, how I struggled with life. [00:43:00]But I’ll record all my life’s story for you when I get enough time, then I can send that to you guys.Alison: Perfect, thank you. And that could be the beginning of a verbal audio journal for you to get inspired for your book.Hakim: I appreciate. [Chuckle]Alison: Awesome. Well, thank you. This is a lovely week, I feel so fortunate to have met you, and please stay in touch.Hakim: We will. We have WhatsApp now.Alison: Yeah, we do.Ben: Awesome. We can keep going. Hakim: Oh, really? You have enough? What time is it now?Ben: Its 7:45 but we’re just waiting for [inaudible] that would text us. [Crosstalk][00:44:00]Definitely wish to hear more about your as well, but I guess in this moment, if you want to talk more about like the emotions you felt during your training and kind of in the last few days, the feeling that you have being in this training and learning from the doctors and just your excitement to have been part of this.Hakim: Solar Spell initiative is always an exciting thing for a person like me, who has grown up in areas or places less privileged that did not have access to a lot of thing, including the textbooks, the health services that has not been there. And the world keeps on evolving, a lot of new thing are always coming up. To address those challenges that we faced in the past,-[00:45:00]-and see other people are still continuing to face. The moment I had in Malawi was a very exciting moment. The moment you come to the demonstration on the Solar Spell and how it works, and how you can access the books, you can even see the faces and the smiles you see on the people. It’s because they know that this is what we have been waiting for. To them, they know this is what we have been waiting for, we want to have it. What comes to me every time, wish I have seen in the previous days that we were together, when we were doing the training in Juba for Solar Spell? After the training is done, the first question they’ll is, “How do I get this for my family, how can I have access to the library for myself?” [00:46:00]You can see the interest from the people on how important this document is to them. If there was no interest, they wouldn’t be asking for it. How much is it? How can I get it? They ask this because they’re very interested. They ask it because this is the right thing that they need. And that is the mood I have seen during the days that we were here, two trainings we had in Lilongwe and Blantyre. So, you see the interest of having these resources even for themselves in their houses, so that their children or even relatives could have access to it. It’s the same feelings that everybody needs to have in the world. So it was a really good/great moment, together with the professors and you guys. [00:47:00]So, it was a beautiful moment for us all and it was exciting being part of it and credit always goes to the professors, for giving us the opportunity of this innovation, and to you for all the support and all the good things you’re doing. Without your support, Solar Spell would not be where it is now. It’s because of your support, working together with your professors. The world now is celebrating the products of what you have done, so it’s a great/exciting moment for us.  