[00:00:00]Allison: Working with that but keeping that passion, the  So I just kind of want to maybe take a step back from where we are today and where Solar Spell is today and get maybe an understanding as to I mean, what influences in your childhood and inspired you to ultimately land on an innovation like Solar Spell libraries.Dr. Hosman: I was thinking about this yesterday and what I was thinking about was how when I was younger, one of the- One of my mantra, one of the things that my parents would always hear me say was, ‘It's not fair.’ And they would always respond, ‘Life's not fair Laura.’ And I never accepted that. So I was always somehow on the lookout for injustices and pointing them out and wanting to rectify them, wanting to fix them,- [00:01:00]-and that was something that drove me, something that is a passion in my belly. And so when I first started traveling to places where we call the developing world, what really struck me was injustice and inequality, and basically it's not fair. If I had been born in any one of those locations anywhere around the world, my life would have been so different. My opportunities would have been so different and pretty much limited. So, it’s fighting that feeling of it's not fair that has driven me since I was a little girl.Allison: Yeah, I love that. I resonate a lot with that same thing. Like, dad, it’s not affair. Well, life isn't fair Alison. I was like, well I just found-Dr. Hosman: That's not an acceptable answer.Alison: No, not at all. Dr. Hosman: Let's make it fair.Alison: Right, exactly. [00:02:00]Very cool. And so, when a big part of your foundational story is your hometown library, I would love to just hear you kind of talk about how your hometown library helped lead to a library in a digital space.Dr. Hosman: Well, you've heard it in the presentation before, but to be honest, I received a really well-rounded education for living in a suburb in the United States. I know that the education system in the United States has challenges these days, and maybe I was a product of the time and the place where I grew up. But well, I had teachers who gave their all every day 110%. So you've also heard me say teaching is a calling. I actually believe that it's a service that's a calling,- [00:03:00]-and teaching just happens to be a service profession. So, yes, you could combine the two and say that it's a calling. So I'm a product of others who founded their calling to be educators, be teachers, and just really benefited from that and took that for granted my whole life. So then the other part of the story as I've come to look at access to information over the years is, yes, I also had access to this amazingly well-resourced library that some people went through the existing books and multimedia that existed at the time and said, you know, this is what we think kids, grown-ups who live here would be interested in learning more with. So we've got the non-fiction, we've got the fiction; we've got CDs, DVDs, and VHS.[00:04:00]All different media over time because media and technology is always changing. So, yes, there was also a great kids’ collection, but somebody had to go through and decide what goes into that collection. The process of curating that information and I always took that for granted until I started the library initiative. But it was also a learning moment for me when I wanted to go back and take a picture or think about all of the libraries that I had been to that had been so influential in my own education, and I had zero pictures of libraries over the years because I had always, always taken them for granted.Alison: Absolutely. So we've kind of talked about how teaching is a calling, you’ve rephrased it to services is a calling. I think that would mean a lot to a lot of different people,-[00:05:00]-whether as a teaching profession, if you're a policeman, firefighter, doctor, right? However, I want to talk a little bit more about, the value of a teacher and maybe thinking of a teacher in so many different ways, right?Not just the human teacher, the person that stands inside the classroom. What about a library as a teacher, what does that what does that mean to you?Dr. Hosman: I'm far more inclined to think of people as lifelong learners, because a library will always be- A library will never be a human. Even when we infuse it with artificial intelligence, it will still never be a human. So there's always going to be a need for the human beings. A library can be a teacher, but it is the people who are curating the resources that go into the library, and it is the people who have created the resources that go into that library. [00:06:00]So it takes humans all the way through and- So [chuckle] I'm not doing a good job of addressing that question.Alison: You’re doing a great job. [Laughter] Now, I think there's something to that human connection. What do you think that human connection looks like in teaching? What do you think that impact of that human connection does for the learner experience?Dr. Hosman: I think it goes back to the- So, another story that I tell frequently at the beginning of my presentations is how there was a laptops initiative globally, and the idea behind it was give a kid a laptop, they'll teach themselves everything they need to know and no more teachers necessary- [00:07:00]-and how I didn't buy that for a second because there's a reason that we send kids to school and it has everything to do with socialization with other kids, with learning how the society is set up, with looking to a teacher, and that there might be respect for authority that's built, and among the many teachers and the administration, and you’d learn that society operates in this way. So, raising a kid via technology is something out of sci-fi. But- I’m going down a bad path here. But there's a reason that we still send kids to school. It has everything to do with learning, socialization, community matters, and it always will because of how humans are. [00:08:00]So, there's something unmissable about community and about being with other people because that's the kind of creatures that human beings are. I really still don't think I'm addressing that particular question of the impact.Alison: I think you are, because you're talking about how also learning spaces aren't just in schools, right? They're everywhere. They're from maybe a sports team, to your parents at home, maybe a neighbor, right?Dr. Hosman: Yes. Alison: It's that sense of community that really can form a person. Was there anyone in your community growing up outside of maybe your standard teaching space in school that really-Dr. Hosman: Yes, absolutely. Alison: Can you tell me about that? Dr. Hosman: Yes. So I was a diver in middle school and high school on the swimming and diving team. And our diving coach was so influential in my life, such a fantastic role model- [00:09:00]-for just a small group of us who were on the diving team together and everything from being a role model in terms of social situations, to teaching me how to drive a stick shift car. And I think I knew it at the time. But another thing about role models is sometimes you don't realize that it's happening until it's over and you've grown and matured so much after that. And so, one more aspect of service, I guess I would say in any profession, be it as a nurse or a minister or a teacher or even a parent, you may never know the impact that you're going to have on any- Sorry, there was a fly right there. You may never know the impact that you're going to have on a given individual, but that's all the more reason that you have to be a role model all the time,- [00:10:00]-give 110% of your commitment to any given project that you work on because you truly never know the impact that you're going to have on whom you're going to have it.Alison: And why do you think it's so important that youth all over the world have role models?Dr. Hosman: Well, there is this phrase, ‘If you can see it, you can be it.’ I've actually- That's always robbed me the wrong way because there always has to be a first person for everything, and if you had to see it to be it, then [chuckle] we would lose all hope because there would never be any path trailblazers. So we're always going to need trailblazers and that's the scary part, and that's- I mean, that's part and parcel of being a role model. Having said that, I do- [00:11:00]The phrase does also resonate with me because it's very true, for example, with women in politics, just as one example, there is a whole lot to be sad for, if you are expecting that gender parity will be reached in politics and this is a normal thing for females to do is to run for office, then you will see. So, there is also an aspect of normalizing things, but- I've lost the trail of your question. Can you ask it again?Alison: Why do you think it's important that youth around the world-Dr. Hosman: Have role models. Oh, my goodness, go away. But role models are also going to inspire people to be their best, the best that they can be, and to break through barriers that they may be facing. [00:12:00]So on the one hand, it's important to be a role model because you never know who you're going to be inspiring, and on the other hand, people need role models, full stop, you know, without question. And I think that it actually elevates all of us in society being the best version of ourselves.Alison: Yeah. So we're going to take it a little bit into a different direction. But I do hope to kind of come back in to some of the things that you had mentioned. Something very influential for you was a physical brick and mortar type library. And now Solar Spell is this digital library. Do you think the need for that physical library is still worth investing in, if bringing things into the digital age,- [00:13:00]-like a library, maybe is the future? Where's that balance?Dr. Hosman: I think finding a balance can be a beautiful thing and a hybrid situation between a physical library and a digital library is in fact exactly where the libraries in Western countries are right now. So in the United States, Canada, Western Europe, Europe, we have brick and mortar libraries that are offering digital libraries. So, for my part, that's a beautiful hybrid situation to have. One of the reasons that at Solar Spell we've been pursuing the digital route is because it can bring information more easily, more freely, more inexpensively to places that don't have brick and mortar libraries. [00:14:00]But then the challenge is, there's frequently not a reading culture when you don't have a brick and mortar library and haven't had one ever in a community. So for sure, for certain, an approach that's digital first is not without its challenges, but it's going to have different challenges. So the two can go very nicely hand in hand, very synergistically, because it's very nice to have a physical space, a safe space, a- What’s was the right word that I'm looking for? One's own space of- I am not finding the word I'm looking for. But traditionally, libraries have also been- I'll find it when we're done with this interview. I’ll tell you. Places of- The only word that's coming to me is Zen, and that's not the word I'm looking for. [00:15:00]Please feel free to help me if you are finding this word that I'm looking for, like serenity and-Alison: I don't know. Let's try to approach the sentence a different way [laughter].Dr. Hosman: Yes. But I mean, libraries are also traditionally a place of community, so people often come together there to have activities, for example, that take place, organized community activities, whether it's to tell the community, hey, let's get together and rally to have this happen, or whether it's seniors dark night, I don't know. I'm coming up with ideas, but there are kids reading hour and again you learn about becoming part of a community, being part of a community. So there is a beauty to having a physical library. But I also believe that we can build community with a digital library. That's one of the reasons that we started working at schools, because schools that didn't have libraries could use a library. [00:16:00]And frequently there can be a physical space made at a school that is a safe space, a welcoming space, a place where anybody can come and feel welcomed if it's not during the school day, it's also open for community members. Alison: Now that's very interesting, that's something that I feel like we talked so much about the digital space with this, with libraries. I was just curious, what is your perspective on- I have a very random question. Do you have a library card, to your local library?Dr. Hosman: No, not to my local library. I have in the past, but interesting enough, no, I mean, I can tell you about how I've had library cards everywhere I've lived. But today, no, I've lived in Phoenix since 2016, so six years now. And I don't have a library card for Phoenix nor for Tempe.Alison: Yeah. I mean, well I guess you have access to the ASU library.Dr. Hosman: This is true. Yes. So on that note, I absolutely have my ASU library card and I have checked out books at ASU Library.[00:17:00]Alison: Cool, I just got a library card for the Tempe Library, and that's like one of my most favorite places to go study. And I think it is really incredible to see this lots of lives that walk through that door, whether it be people with their small children all coming in for a reading hour or others doing research who might not have access to that technology side to do it in a computer lab. So now I really enjoy going to the local library. It's also easier parking in the night there [laughter].Dr. Hosman: Yes, free parking. Alison: Free parking [00:17:41] [inaudible]. We’re going to wait for a monster truck to go by. Dr. Hosman: Luckily, they're never coming this way. Alison: Yeah. Dr. Hosman: It's just back and forth, back and forth. Alison: It’s a busy man.Dr. Hosman: Yeah.[00:18:00]Alison: Okay. So, a big aspect of your presentation and I'm still on Solar spell, is information literacy and access to information as a human right. Where did that stem for you holding, that deep belief that the most important skill someone can have is information literacy? And the way that you do that is by having information, be something that is a human right for everyone, no matter where they are.Dr. Hosman: Well, believe it or not, it didn't happen at the beginning of Solar Spell. It's something that has developed over time as I've worked on this initiative and it goes to the heart of the question of what is development. It also has a lot to do with Amartya Sen’s capabilities approach. How do we know what we're capable of? How do we define development? [00:19:00]How do we define empowerment of people? And the more that I would think about it, the more I would think, okay, it comes through education and you need to have access to quality education. That's part of the teacher and the student or teachers and students, we learn from each other, but at the end of the day, there's no such thing as quality education without access to information.And when I was going to the places where we were working, I was very slowly realizing the more and more schools that I was visiting, how difficult it was to get access to information. And I was one of the people who started helping build out Internet to places that didn't have it before. And then I started seeing what people were using the Internet for and realized this is not empowering, this is disempowering. [00:20:00]Because they're getting exposed to a corporate version of the Internet that's brought to them by for-profit technology companies based in another country that don't care about empowering them and really have no mandate to care about empowering them. They're a for-profit company that cares about making profits. It's actually not fair to ask them to build people's human rights. It's not what they were formed to do. Having said that, so they're getting tiny little sips of access to this thing we call the Internet, and when you get a sip of something, it turned out it was social media. For-profit social media that is designed to keep you on the website as long as humanly possible so that they can extract as much information out of you as they can, so that they can sell ads to keep you on even longer. But nobody who's going online for the very first time knows that. [00:21:00]And for many of us, it took us years to figure it out and we used it for years. And now a lot of us are coming to see what that can look like seven, eight, ten years later. And we don't like it. And we're using social media less and less. But there's still a huge burgeoning market across the developing world, where people don't realize that. Where people are getting online for the first time. And to be honest, of course there's a benefit to social media or there wouldn't be billions of people using it. It's the fact that what- The skills that people are building through usage of social media, those are skills. So let's not kid ourselves, let's take advantage of those. But let's try to use them to empower people. And so let's figure out what those skills are that they're building and see if we can also build empowering skills like information literacy. Because when you're connecting to social media and the social media is determining- [00:22:00]-all of the information that you're seeing, instead of you having enough experience in life to know how to assess information, to know whether something was trustworthy or fake or designed to rile you up, to keep you online longer, or to ask what the source of this information was and can you trust it. Those are the kind of skills that we can teach through a library and through schools and through working with educators, you know, be they agricultural extension agents or faculty at a nursing school. Going and empowering educators to empower others, is a very powerful way to build people skills over the longer term, I would say. Back to the question at the origin of this ramble. [00:23:00]It was a process of figuring out how to empower people with information so that they could empower others and make informed decisions that that would increase their own capabilities and increase their own empowerment ability to make informed decisions.Alison: So how does Solar Spell embrace Amartya Sen’s capabilities structure?Dr. Hosman: I think back to the example of the young woman in a small community who was saying that when she reads, her mind is more open, she feels good about herself, she feels freer, that we know that knowledge and education has this improving quality- [00:24:00]-and it empowers people without question. So, having access to information means being able to make more empowering decisions about one's life, and it can very well also mean that you are inclined to help others feel that same way and empower themselves, become lifelong learners who can make intelligent decisions based on information.Alison: Now that's wonderful. What do you believe the role of technology is, in development? We've been focusing so hard on the human aspect and human connection. However, something like a Solar Spell library carried inside a device, does- [00:25:00]-help develop communities through access to information. So, where is that line? What is the role of technology in that?Dr. Hosman: I think that there will always be somewhat of a dilemma when introducing technology. And technology is only going to bring more benefit than harm when it's being plugged into a situation that's already working or empowering people. At Solar Spell, we've worked hard to introduce this library into places where education is already happening, and again, I mean, that can be in schools, that can be in- We just had the training with a nursing college and a university. It can also be with agricultural extension agents. But basically where education and where training are already happening is where we have tried to introduce this library- [00:26:00]-and to never forget one of our other sayings that we say all the time is, we never throw technology over the fence and say, okay, good luck. See yah, you'll figure it out; ever. Because the human part of it is so important, and in fact, I haven't been talking about technology yet because there is such a propensity out there to focus on the technology and not on the development part of the human aspect of it. So, if we went all the way back to the beginning of my story, it was realizing this artificial emphasis that people place on technology so often we want a shortcut, we want an instant fix. It's because technology has brought us the ability to change so quickly, and so we're always looking for that quick fix or shortcut, and that's not how slow growth happens. It's not how empowerment happens. It's definitely how technology spreads, but we forget that human beings don't learn- [00:27:00]-or grow at the same speed that technology can change and grow. There's the idea that in order to become an expert at something, you need to do it for 10000 hours and somehow we want to be able to do it once and be an expert. And, you know, anyone who's ever truly mastered a skill or an art knows that you don't master it after one try.Alison: And what do you think are the biggest contributing factors towards why humans are looking for that quick fix?Dr. Hosman: So, I'm going to answer, I think, what is- When would it be your last questions on the page? Warning here.Alison: Okay. That’s okay. You've been doing a great job at like knowing what- [laughter]Dr. Hosman: Well, you let me read them ahead of time. So one of the biggest challenges that I see, it's an ongoing challenge. And one of the biggest lessons that I've learned in this work- [00:28:00]-is the realization that human beings take for granted everything that they possibly can. Double edged sword, as there are so many things, but it is one of the aspects of human nature that allows us to move forward, that allows us to go to the moon and harness the power of the sun and never be satisfied with where we are right now, we're always looking for the next thing, and that is part of human nature because we, some of us, can take for granted so many things. You know, you turn on a light switch, you don't have to think about where the electricity is coming from, and so you don't. And you don't have to remember to tie your shoes every morning and the list goes on, there are a truly infinite number of things that we don't have to take for granted, and so we don't, but the challenge comes when we're working with or trying to bring benefit in an empowering way to people who cannot and do not take for granted- [00:29:00]-all of the things that some people can, and so there's there is vast inequality in the world and we know this, but figuring out how to work together with, across cultures, across capabilities, languages, time and space. One of the things that has been another challenge with Solar Spell is the inability to travel during the entire pandemic has meant that- Maybe to put it in a different way, Solar spell seems to only truly- Wait, let me put it differently than that. People truly get Solar Spell when we're in the room with them and they connect to the library themselves. So not being able to travel for three years during the pandemic- [00:30:00]-really put the brakes on us in a number of ways. And while that was very frustrating, we were able instead to do some introspection and say, okay, what could we do to improve the entire initiative while we're grounded? So we had some really great ideas. And honestly, you have to look at a challenge and say, how can I turn this into an opportunity? So it's been quite amazing to be able to now finally travel to the Lesotho, to Malawi, soon to Zimbabwe, and to be giving these in-person trainings, which is so rejuvenating to remember. This is why I'm doing it, to be able to see the excitement that people have for the first time, to have access to all of this information that they didn't have before. [00:31:00]I guess that I could bring it back to the wonder of being a child and going into a library and knowing I could pick any of these books eight at a time or ten at a time and bring them home and read them and go to all these different worlds that they would bring me to because somebody had taken all of that time to curate, to especially choose all of these different books out of the universe of books that there were out there, that a little four year old me was going to love, and so there is a very similar feeling when we were giving a training and the teachers, the trainees, the trainees connect to the library for the very first time and they see this world of information that has been curated specially for them. That's why we do what we do and to know that because of that inspiration that they feel and that excitement, they are going to go on and have such a bigger impact on all of the lifelong learners, be the students, nurses, you fill in the blank, community members,- [00:32:00]-all of these people that they're going to touch in their lives.